---
layout:     post
title:      "July 2nd"
date:       2017-07-02
summary:    "My 2nd Day in Oxford"
---

I woke up five minutes before my 8am alarm to the sun coming through my blinds on Sunday. I had slept somewhere in the neighborhood of fourteen hours and felt amazing. It was a bit chilly outside, but I ventured out in search of food, as I found myself starving. The city was almost completely deserted that early, but there was a chalkboard sign on the sidewalk declaring "Breakfast, Lunch, Afternoon Tea" and pointing down an alleyway. I figured if I was going to make a habit of getting out of the touristy areas I might as well start with alleyway breakfast, so I followed the sign and the second sign that it pointed to, and I found myself in a little cafe with three or four locals having their breakfast and tea and reading the paper.

The breakfast was good and the servers polite, but the best part by far was the tea. I ordered black tea and was given an entire teapot with my mug. I sat and drank two extra cups of tea after I'd finished my cheese rarebit (and extra bacon) just watching the locals come in with their newspapers. I later found out that that cafe was incredibly well known and generally so full that you cannot get a table because the cafe is inside of a large chapel connected to one of the colleges here.

After I'd run out of tea I wandered the opposite direction on high street of the way that I had gone the day before. Unbeknownst to me, I was walking into the more popular part of the city. I spent most of my morning there familiarizing myself with the layout of that half of the city and making mental notes of the shops that I wanted to come back to. Unfortunately, it was a Sunday and so most shops did not open until 11. When things did start opening I went into a pharmacy called Boots and bought myself a hairdryer (American hairdryers explode on British current) and some various toiletries that I hadn't packed. 
I wandered back towards the campus and dropped my new materials off and then got myself lunch in the closest cafe to the left of the front door of campus. I ordered a sandwich with the same name as the one that I order at La Madeline in the states and was delighted to find that it was entirely different. It was vaguely made with the same ingredients, but it was as if someone had explained the sandwich to someone else in a language that was not the person's natural language.
 
After that we had a walking tour of the city sponsored by the program. Our tour guide, Jean, was a very pleasant old woman happy to be showing interested people around town. She did everything from tell us when the buildings were built to how to play cricket to where her favorite pub was. Relatively soon after our tour we had convocation, our official group photo, and our Coming Up Dinner, which was formal and beautiful if not the most impressive food (gazpacho and boiled meat aren't my style). The convocation was a short ceremony, but it was interesting; the speaker told us that if we learned nothing else, he hoped that we would learn that which a convocation speaker at Oxford from almost a century ago had asked his students to learn: to know when someone is talking rot. He referenced the political situation in our country and the great deal of talking rot going on, and left it at that. With that my weekend was done. 