---
layout:     post
title:      "July 3rd"
date:       2017-07-03
summary:    "My third day in Oxford."
---

My first day of classes! My first official day of my study abroad! I got breakfast at the college cafeteria, called The Buttery, and ate in the great hall. The food was a bit strange: one thing that I thought was sausage turned out to be packed vegetables, and the eggs looked so fraught that I didn't even get them on my plate. After that was my first class of the day: Shakespeare, with an SMU professor. I love Shakespeare; reading his plays brings me an immense amount of joy, and studying them with others who are equally excited about such literature brings me even more. The class has given me the opportunity to study a few plays that I had yet to read, but there wasn't an incredible amount of passion in the room. The class itself could have been better. 

We had a break for tea and coffee and I figured out that the "cookies" served are only edible if you dip them in hot tea. After tea our class met again to finish up our discussions, and then I went to my second class: Anglo-American Democracy with an Oxford tutor. Her class was much more interesting, and she herself was very opinionated and open about it. After taking role (my name confused her and so she decided to just call me Rose) she told us the structure of her class and then let us all ask questions and tell her about our interests. One student asked about the British take on Trump; she laughed and politely explained that it was quite negative. Having come from a university where most professors attempt to hide their political bias, it was strange to hear such strong political opinions spoken in a classroom. She separated our class into groups of four and gave us all times and days for us to meet with her in "tutorials," wherein we would be expected to present our weekly essays and discuss them.

When we were released I dropped my backpack in my room and then went to meet my friend Christian who had traveled from the states to experience Oxford again (he had gone on this trip during his undergraduate). Like me on my first day he too was painfully jet lagged, so we went to a pub, had fish and chips and meat pie respectively, and then he needed to sleep. Finding myself with time I started a bit of work, and looked up after a couple of hours and realized I had completely missed the tutorial time that I had been given earlier that day in my Oxford-taught class. 

I sent a very embarrassed email to my professor and then roused Christian for food. He knew of a pub called the Eagle and Child, better known as the Bird and Baby, wherein J. R. R. Tolkien and C. S. Lewis had met when they were both in Oxford. We went there for dinner, each got what the other had had for lunch, and I had my first beer in a pub in country. I couldn't drink the full pint, but it was novel to get to drink a beer with my fish and chips in a nook in a pub, as if in some sort of movie. After dinner we wandered the city a bit until we found ice cream still open. Ice cream is everywhere in this country, which is hilarious to me. You would think that Texas, which is much hotter and has a much higher obesity rate, would have more ice cream parlors and trucks than this mostly rainy city occupied by tall, thin people. Ice cream was easily found (I got vanilla with brownie bits in it) and so our day was finished. 