---
layout:     post
title:      "Off to Oxford"
date:       2017-07-01
summary:    "I spent all of July and a little bit of August studying abroad in Oxford during the summer between my sophomore and junior year of college. This is the first post about my time there."
---

First Day:

I managed to meet some fellow SMU-in-Oxford-ians boarding the same plane as me, so I had someone to talk to while waiting in the airport. Onboard I found myself in the same row as a young girl clutching a Beast plushie. She and her family saw me working the seat screen and asked what I was doing, so I leaned across the grandmother next to me and set the young girl up with Beauty and the Beast on her screen. She was incredibly excited, and sang along to Belle's first song. Over the course of the flight I learned that they were headed to Venice, with a layover in London, to visit the girl's mother who was married to a member of the air force stationed there. The family, who were sitting all around me, were not very experienced travels, and so were up and about walking for the entire flight, and seemed to take pleasure in shaking my chair. I didn't get much sleep. Oh well. I did listen to a great deal of music though, and watched The King's Speech. It was ok. I couldn't get over the fact that Barbosa was the speech coach and Bellatrix Lestrange was the queen. 

Upon landing I struck up a conversation with the British man to my right in the plane. He laughed at SMU being "only" 100 years old, and told me that Oxford is quite interesting and beautiful, but he prefers Cambridge, and that he lives in London, but it isn't beautiful. When we ran out of things to say about school we talked about the weather. It was small talk, but it was really pleasant small talk compared to the bouncing babbling questions coming from Beauty and the Beast child, and his accent felt like the first proof that I had really traveled somewhere. 

I caught a little bit of flack going through customs because passport-photo-me has long hair and looks like a young porcelain doll. After talking to me about my studies though the agent sent me through, telling me "we need more honest judges like you." After that I met a great many more students on the trip, mostly just by recognizing their faces from around campus, or by spotting Greek letters. I got a proper breakfast from a little cafe in the terminal: smoked salmon and scrambled eggs on toast. The kitchen messed up my order, the salmon was cold, and the eggs were lukewarm, but it was protein and I ate it anyways. 

The bus ride to the campus was relatively uneventful, but arriving was incredible. The view right when you walk in the front door of the college (yea, the college has a wooden front door) is stunning. I got my room key, was led up the twisting, terribly mapped stairs, and unpacked as fast as I could. I was exhausted and knew that if I stayed in my room I would fall asleep and worsen my jet lag, so after unpacking my things I just walked straight out the front door, found myself on the High Street, and turned left. We had come in to town from that direction so I knew it was one long street that I could walk down to keep myself from passing out. Just over a little bridge I heard the sound of singing and smelled something wonderful so I followed my nose and stumbled into the Oxford Botanical Garden, which was celebrating Alice Day (July 1st) and so was decorated and holding a picnic. 

The gardens were a dream come true. For just a few quid I spent an hour walking around in flowers taller than me and greenhouses with air so fragrant and thick that I felt like I was swimming. I almost cried in the lily room it was so beautiful and I was so tired. After I’d seen most of the garden I wandered out and kept walking down high street until I found the edge of town, and then I just turned around and came back. We had an orientation meeting around the time that I got back, and then it was buffet style dinner, and then it was 6pm and I decided it was time for bed. Unfortunately, I found out at that time that my windows were not bug proof, as a moth looking thing the size of my fist crawled in through a crack and landed on my pillow. I shouted at it and waved a textbook and it left, so I stuffed my American Airlines blanket into the largest crack and finally went to sleep. 